[DO NOT MERGE] Add new documentation for variable sets (#1950)
hashicorp/terraform-website: content/source/docs/cloud/workspaces/managing-variables.html.md

---
layout: "cloud"
page_title: "Managing Variables - Terraform Cloud and Terraform Enterprise"
description: "Configure Terraform input variables and environment variables and create reusable variable sets that apply to multiple workspaces."

> 

Author: this doesn't look like it made a change, so I'm resolving :-)

---

# Managing Variables

> -> **Note:** Variable sets are in beta.

Reviewer: I would definitely move this down to the first mention of variable sets rather than at the top of the page.

> -> **Note:** Variable sets are in beta.

Author: done! I mention it in the first few sentences but I've moved it down to after it's mentioned - good call, thank you!

You can set variables specifically for each workspace or you can create variable sets to reuse the same variables across multiple workspaces. Refer to the [variables overview](/docs/cloud/workspaces/variables.html) documentation for more information about variable types, scope, and precedence.

You need [read and write variables permissions](/docs/cloud/users-teams-organizations/permissions.html#general-workspace-permissions) to create and edit both workspace-specific variables and variable sets through:

- The Terraform Cloud UI, as detailed below.

> - The Variables API for [workspace-specific variables](/docs/cloud/api/workspace-variables.html) and [variable sets](/docs/cloud/api/variable-sets.html).

Reviewer 2: `/docs/cloud/api/variable-sets.html` doesn't link appropriately when running locally. is this part of the `terraform` repo? if so, remember to ship them together!

Author: yes! Alex will merge those docs with this branch and then we'll do a ship all at once! thank you for the reminder! :-)

- The `tfe` provider [`tfe_variable`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/tfe/latest/docs/resources/variable) resource, which can be more convenient for large numbers of complex variables.

## Workspace-Specific Variables

To view and manage a workspace's variables, go to the workspace and click the **Variables** tab.

The **Variables** page appears, showing all workspace-specific variables and variable sets applied to the workspace. This is where you can add, edit, and delete workspace-specific variables. You can also add and remove variable sets from this workspace.

![Screenshot: The initial appearance of a workspace's variables page](./images/vars.png)

> 

Author: it is! don't worry - I'm going to fix this later today :-)

### Add a Variable

1. Go to the workspace **Variables** page and click **+ Add variable**.

> 2. Choose a variable category (Terraform or environment), optionally mark the variable as [sensitive](#sensitive-values), and enter a variable name, value, and optional description.

Author: good call - let me call that out as well!

    Refer to [variable values and format](#variable-values-and-format) for variable limits, allowable values, and formatting.

> 3. Click **Save variable**. The variable appears in the list of variables for the workspace and Terraform Cloud will begin applying it to runs.

Author: noted - I changed everything so it has all 1s, and I'll remember for the future!

>   ![Screenshot: A variable being edited](./images/vars-edit.png)

Author: yes that will also happen later today!

### Edit a Variable

1. Click the ellipses next to the variable you want to edit and select **Edit**.
2. Make any desired changes and click **Save variable**.

### Delete a Variable

1. Click the ellipses next to the variable you want to delete and select **Delete**.
2. Type the variable name into the dialog box to confirm and click **Delete**.

## Variable Sets

> **Hands On:** Try the [Create and Use a Variable Set](https://learn.hashicorp.com//tutorials/terraform/cloud-create-variable-set) tutorial on HashiCorp Learn.

To view variable sets for your organization, click **Settings** in the top menu bar and then click **Variable sets** in the left sidebar.

The **Variable sets** page appears, showing a list of all of the variable sets within the organization. Click each variable set to open it and review details about its variables.

![The variable sets page in the Terraform Cloud UI](link)

### Create Variable Sets

-> **Note:** Variable sets are currently in beta.

> To create a variable set:

Reviewer 2: I like how you prefaced the numbered steps with this. Can we do the same with the workspace-specific variables?

Author: yes! thank you - good call - pushed up a change for that!

1. Go to the **Variable Sets** page for your organization and click **Create variable set**. The **Create a new Variable set** page appears.

  ![The create a new Variable set page in the Terraform Cloud UI](link)

2. Choose a descriptive **Name** for the variable set. You can use any combination of numbers, letters, and characters.

3. Write an optional **Description** that tells other users about the purpose of the variable set and what it contains.

4. Choose a variable set scope:
   - **Apply to all workspaces in this organization:** Terraform Cloud will automatically apply this global variable set to all existing and future workspaces.
   - **Apply to specific workspaces:** Use the text field to search for and select one or more workspaces where Terraform Cloud should apply this variable set.

> 

Reviewer 2: should we add a warning that users can add variable sets from their workspace?

"Apply to specific workspaces" doesn't prohibit other workspaces from accessing and using the variable set

Author: YES good call - I'll push up a fix for this.

5. Add one or more variables: Click **+ Add variable**, choose a variable category (Terraform or environment), optionally mark the variable as [sensitive](#sensitive-values), and enter a variable name, value, and optional description, and click **Save variable**.

    Refer to [variable values and format](#variable-values-and-format) for variable limits, allowable values, and formatting.

> 
>     ~> **Warning:** Be careful when duplicating existing variables. Terraform Cloud will not create this variable set if you selected **Apply to all workspaces in this organization** and you add one or more variables with the same key as other global variable sets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

    ~> **Warning:** Be careful when duplicating existing variables. Terraform Cloud will not create a variable set if you select the **Apply to all workspaces in this organization** scope and declare one or more variables with the same key as variables in other global variable sets.
```

>     ~> **Warning:** Be careful when duplicating existing variables. Terraform Cloud will not create this variable set if you selected **Apply to all workspaces in this organization** and you add one or more variables with the same key as other global variable sets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    !> **Warning:** Be careful when duplicating existing variables. Terraform Cloud will not create this variable set if you selected **Apply to all workspaces in this organization** and you add one or more variables with the same key as other global variable sets.
```

6. Click **Create variable set.** Terraform Cloud adds the new variable set to any specified workspaces and displays it on the **Variable Sets** page.

### Edit Variable Sets

> To edit or remove variable sets:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To edit or remove a variable set:
```

> 1. Click **Settings** in the top menu bar and then click **Variable Sets** in the left sidebar. The **Create a new Variable set** page appears.
> 2. Click the variable set you want to edit. The **Edit Variables** page appears, where you can change the variable set settings. Refer to [create variable sets](#create-variable-sets) for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Settings** in the top menu bar and then click **Variable Sets** in the left sidebar. The **Variable sets** page appears.
2. Click the variable set you want to edit. That specific variable set page appears, where you can change the variable set settings. Refer to [create variable sets](#create-variable-sets) for details.
```

### Delete Variable Sets

To delete the variable set:

> 1. Click **Settings** in the top menu bar and then click **Variable Sets** in the left sidebar. The **Create a new Variable set** page appears.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Click **Settings** in the top menu bar, then click **Variable Sets** in the left sidebar. The **Create a new Variable set** page appears.
```

> 1. Click **Settings** in the top menu bar and then click **Variable Sets** in the left sidebar. The **Create a new Variable set** page appears.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Settings** in the top menu bar and then click **Variable Sets** in the left sidebar. The **Variable sets** page appears.
```

Author: fixed!

> 2. Select **Delete variable set**. Terraform Cloud removes the variable set from all workspaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Select **Delete variable set**. Enter the variable set name and click **Delete variable set** to confirm this action. Terraform Cloud deletes the variable set and removes it from all workspaces.
```

### Apply or Remove Variable Sets From Inside a Workspace

To apply a variable set to a specific workspace:

1. Go to the workspace and click the **Variables** tab. The **Variables** page appears, showing all workspace-specific variables and variable sets applied to the workspace.

2. Click **Apply Variable Set**, select the variable set you want to apply to your workspace, and click **Apply variable set**. The new variable set appears in the list and the Terraform will use the variables in the set during the next workspace run.

To remove a variable set from within a workspace:

1. Go to the workspace and click the **Variables** tab. The **Variables** page appears, showing all workspace-specific variables and variable sets applied to the workspace.
2. Click the ellipses button next to the variable set and select **Remove variable set**.

> 3. Click **Remove variable set** in the dialog box. Terraform Cloud removes the variable set from this workspace, but it remains available to other workspaces in the organization.

Reviewer 4: This is getting updated so that removal entails clicking through to the variable set detail page and removing from there. My understanding is we don't have a good pattern around this elsewhere? @roarytubbs Has better context.

Reviewer 5: This will be changing for if a user has permissions they will just click on the variable set "card" and it will take them to view/edit. I don't think that will get changed before we launch into public beta tomorrow.

Author: okay then I'm going to leave as is, and we can fix as soon as it gets implemented - thanks for the heads up!

## Overwrite Variable Sets

You can overwrite variables defined in variable sets within a workspace. For example, you may want to use a different set of provider credentials in a specific workspace.

> To overwrite a variable from a variable set, [create a new workspace-specific variable](#workspace-specific-variables) of the same type with the same key. Terraform Cloud marks any variables that you overwrite with a yellow exclamation point and provides a link to the variable that will take precedence during runs.

Reviewer 3: might want to clarify that the link actually just highlights the variable TFC uses if you click it

### Variable Limits
The following limits apply to variables:

Component   |  Limit
------------|---------------------------
description |  512 characters
key         |  128 characters
value       |  256 kilobytes

### Multi-Line Text

You can type or past multi-line text into variable value text fields.

### HashiCorp Configuration Language (HCL)

You can use HCL for Terraform variables, but not for environment variables. The same Terraform version that performs runs in the workspace will interpret the HCL.

Variable values are strings by default. To enter list or map values, click the variable’s **HCL** checkbox (visible when editing) and enter the value with the same HCL syntax you would use when writing Terraform code. For example:

```hcl
{
    us-east-1 = "image-1234"
    us-west-2 = "image-4567"
}
```
### Sensitive Values

> ~> **Warning:** There are some cases when even sensitive variables are included in logs and state files. Refer to [security](#security) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
!> **Warning:** There are some cases when even sensitive variables are included in logs and state files. Refer to [security](#security) for more information.
```

> Terraform often needs cloud provider credentials and other sensitive information that shouldn't be widely available within your organization. To protect these secrets, you can mark any Terraform or environment variable as sensitive data by clicking its **Sensitive** checkbox that is visible during editing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Terraform often needs cloud provider credentials and other sensitive information that should not be widely available within your organization. To protect these secrets, you can mark any Terraform or environment variable as sensitive data by clicking its **Sensitive** checkbox that is visible during editing.
```

> Marking a variable as sensitive prevents all users (including you) from viewing its value in the variables section of the workspace in Terraform Cloud's UI or through the Variables API endpoint.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Marking a variable as sensitive makes it write-only and prevents all users (including you) from viewing its value in the Terraform Cloud UI or reading it through the Variables API endpoint.
```

> Users with permission to read and write variables can set new values for sensitive variables, but no other attribute of a sensitive variable can be modified. To update other attributes, delete the variable and create a new variable to replace it.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Users with permission to read and write variables can set new values for sensitive variables, but other attributes of a sensitive variable cannot be modified. To update other attributes, delete the variable and create a new variable to replace it.

```

Reviewer: Active voice :)

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers

### Variable Description

> ~> **Warning:** Variable descriptions are not encrypted, so do not include any sensitive information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
!> **Warning:** Variable descriptions are not encrypted, so do not include any sensitive information.
```

![Screenshot: The initial appearance of a workspace's variables page](./images/vars.png)

### Add a Variable

To add a variable:

1. Go to the workspace **Variables** page and click **+ Add variable** in the **Workspace Variables** section.

2. Choose a variable type (Terraform or environment), optionally mark the variable as [sensitive](#sensitive-values), and enter a variable key, value, and optional description.

    Refer to [variable values and format](#variable-values-and-format) for variable limits, allowable values, and formatting.

3. Click **Save variable**. The variable now appears in the list of the workspace's variables and Terraform Cloud will apply it to runs.

  ![Screenshot: A variable being edited](./images/vars-edit.png)

### Edit a Variable

To edit a variable:

1. Click the ellipses next to the variable you want to edit and select **Edit**.
2. Make any desired changes and click **Save variable**.

### Delete a Variable

To delete a variable:

1. Click the ellipses next to the variable you want to delete and select **Delete**.
2. Type the variable name into the dialog box to confirm and click **Delete**.

> ## Variable Sets

Author: This is a really good comment. Here are my thoughts on this. 
- I agree that this should have a section on the organization-settings page. Thank you - that's SUCH a good catch! 
- I think that adding all of this UI content will make that page even longer than it already is and may overwhelm users. So I think what I'm going to do is create a section that talks about variable sets at a high level and then links to the documentation about how to create and manage them. This matches a pattern I see in some of the other sections under organization settings (for example, teams and VCS providers). It also keeps variable sets content together with all of the content about workspace variables. This is such a weird one because while they are an organizational resource, they are applied to workspaces. So, I think it still makes sense to talk about variable sets in context with workspace variables.

Let me know if you completely disagree - open to more feedback! But this is how I'm thinking about it and I think it works as long as we link to the content in appropriate locations (like organization settings!).

    Refer to [variable values and format](#variable-values-and-format) for variable limits, allowable values, and formatting.

    ~> **Warning:** Be careful when duplicating existing variables. Terraform Cloud will not create a variable set if you select the **Apply to all workspaces in this organization** scope and declare one or more variables with the same key as variables in other global variable sets.

6. Click **Create variable set.** Terraform Cloud adds the new variable set to any specified workspaces and displays it on the **Variable Sets** page.

### Edit Variable Sets

To edit or remove variable sets:

1. Click **Settings** in the top menu bar and then click **Variable Sets** in the left sidebar. The **Create a new Variable set** page appears.
2. Click the variable set you want to edit. The **Edit Variables** page appears, where you can change the variable set settings. Refer to [create variable sets](#create-variable-sets) for details.

> ### Delete Variable Sets

Author: excellent feedback! I'm going to push up a fix.

To remove a variable set from within a workspace:

1. Go to the workspace and click the **Variables** tab. The **Variables** page appears, showing all workspace-specific variables and variable sets applied to the workspace.
2. Click the ellipses button next to the variable set and select **Remove variable set**.
3. Click **Remove variable set** in the dialog box. Terraform Cloud removes the variable set from this workspace, but it remains available to other workspaces in the organization.

## Overwrite Variable Sets

You can overwrite variables defined in variable sets within a workspace. For example, you may want to use a different set of provider credentials in a specific workspace.

To overwrite a variable from a variable set, [create a new workspace-specific variable](#workspace-specific-variables) of the same type with the same key. Terraform Cloud marks any variables that you overwrite with a yellow exclamation point and provides a link to the variable that will take precedence during runs.

![An overwritten variable marked with a yellow exclamation point](link)

> Variables within a variable set can also automatically overwrite, or are overwritten by, variables with the same key in other variable sets applied to the workspace. Refer to [variable precedence](/docs/cloud/workspaces/variables.html#precedence) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Variables within a variable set can also automatically overwrite variables with the same key in other variable sets applied to the same workspace. Refer to [variable precedence](/docs/cloud/workspaces/variables.html#precedence) for more details.
```

Reviewer: Also, it might be good to be explicit about the fact that even though variable sets themselves are an organization-level object, overwriting only happens at the level of the workspace.

Author: good call! I'll call that out.

## Variable Values and Format

The limits, allowable values, and required format are the same for both workspace-specific variables and variable sets.

### Security

> Terraform Cloud encrypts all variable values securely using [Vault's transit backend](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/transit/index.html) prior to saving them. This ensures that no out-of-band party can read these values without proper authorization. However, [descriptions](#variable-description) are not encrypted, so be careful with the information you save in a variable description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terraform Cloud encrypts all variable values securely using [Vault's transit backend](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/transit/index.html) prior to saving them. This ensures that no out-of-band party can read these values without proper authorization. However, Terraform Cloud stores variable [descriptions](#variable-description) in plain text, so be careful with the information you save in a variable description.
```

> We also recommend using environment variables when possible to avoid unnecessary credential disclosure. Terraform runs receive the full text of [sensitive](#sensitive-values) Terraform variables and may print the value in logs and state files if the configuration sends the value to an output or a resource parameter. Sentinel mocks downloaded from runs will also contain the sensitive values of Terraform variables. Environment variables can also be included in log files if `TF_LOG` is set to `TRACE`.

Reviewer: I'm pretty sure this is the model but you might want to get someone to check over this edit to make sure that its still technically correct. 

```suggestion
We also recommend passing credentials to Terraform as environment variables instead of Terraform variables when possible, since Terraform runs receive the full text of all Terraform variable values, including [sensitive](#sensitive-values) ones. It may print the values in logs and state files if the configuration sends the value to an output or a resource parameter. Sentinel mocks downloaded from runs will also contain the sensitive values of Terraform variables. 

Although Terraform cloud does not store environment variables in state, it can include them in log files if `TF_LOG` is set to `TRACE`.
```

Author: ohhh thank you! okay let me ask about this one, too. Thank you for the edit!

Author: confirmed with two people. I'm going to push this.

> ### Variable Limits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Character Limits
```

{
    us-east-1 = "image-1234"
    us-west-2 = "image-4567"
}
```
### Sensitive Values

~> **Warning:** There are some cases when even sensitive variables are included in logs and state files. Refer to [security](#security) for more information.

Terraform often needs cloud provider credentials and other sensitive information that shouldn't be widely available within your organization. To protect these secrets, you can mark any Terraform or environment variable as sensitive data by clicking its **Sensitive** checkbox that is visible during editing.

Marking a variable as sensitive prevents all users (including you) from viewing its value in the variables section of the workspace in Terraform Cloud's UI or through the Variables API endpoint.

Users with permission to read and write variables can set new values for sensitive variables, but no other attribute of a sensitive variable can be modified. To update other attributes, delete the variable and create a new variable to replace it.

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers

### Variable Description

~> **Warning:** Variable descriptions are not encrypted, so do not include any sensitive information.

> Optional variable descriptions help distinguish between similarly named variables. They are only shown on the **Variables** page and are completely independent from any variable descriptions declared in Terraform CLI.

Reviewer: Specify that the descriptions themselves are optional. Old wording could also mean that we're only referring to the descriptions of optional variables. 

```suggestion
Variable descriptions are optional, and help distinguish between similarly named variables. They are only shown on the **Variables** page and are completely independent from any variable descriptions declared in Terraform CLI.
```

---
layout: "cloud"
page_title: "Managing Variables - Terraform Cloud and Terraform Enterprise"
description: "Configure Terraform input variables and environment variables and create reusable variable sets that apply to multiple workspaces."

---

# Managing Variables

You can set variables specifically for each workspace or you can create variable sets to reuse the same variables across multiple workspaces. Refer to the [variables overview](/docs/cloud/workspaces/variables.html) documentation for more information about variable types, scope, and precedence.

> -> **Note:** Variable sets are in beta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~> **Note:** Variable sets are in beta.
```

1. Click **Save variable**. The variable now appears in the list of the workspace's variables and Terraform Cloud will apply it to runs.

  ![Screenshot: A variable being edited](./images/vars-edit.png)

### Edit a Variable

To edit a variable:

1. Click the ellipses next to the variable you want to edit and select **Edit**.
1. Make any desired changes and click **Save variable**.

### Delete a Variable

To delete a variable:

1. Click the ellipses next to the variable you want to delete and select **Delete**.
1. Click **Yes, delete variable** to confirm your action.

## Variable Sets

> **Hands On:** Try the [Manage Variable Sets in Terraform Cloud tutorial](https://learn.hashicorp.com//tutorials/terraform/manage-variable-sets) on HashiCorp Learn.

To view variable sets for your organization, click **Settings** in the top menu bar, then click **Variable sets** in the left sidebar.

The **Variable sets** page appears, listing all of the organization's variable sets. Click on a variable set to open it and review details about its variables and scoping.

![The variable sets page in the Terraform Cloud UI](link)

### Create Variable Sets

> -> **Note:** Variable sets are currently in beta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~> **Note:** Variable sets are currently in beta.
```

To create a variable set:

1. Go to the **Variable Sets** page for your organization and click **Create variable set**. The **Create a new variable set** page appears.

  ![The create a new Variable set page in the Terraform Cloud UI](link)

> 1. Choose a descriptive **Name** for the variable set. You can use any combination of numbers, letters, and characters.

Reviewer: This list isn't rendering quite right (1 is listed twice), possibly because of the image indenting? If you're in a hurry you can hack it by specifying numbers and sorting out the indenting after launch.

Author: Fixed! thank you so much for flagging - I needed to indent the photo a few more spaces...the renderer is so finicky about that.

### Add a Variable

To add a variable:

1. Go to the workspace **Variables** page and click **+ Add variable** in the **Workspace Variables** section.

1. Choose a variable category (Terraform or environment), optionally mark the variable as [sensitive](#sensitive-values), and enter a variable key, value, and optional description. Check the **HCL** checkbox to enter a value in HashiCorp Configuration Language.

    Refer to [variable values and format](#variable-values-and-format) for variable limits, allowable values, and formatting.

    ![Screenshot: A variable being edited](./images/vars-edit.png)

1. Click **Save variable**. The variable now appears in the list of the workspace's variables and Terraform Cloud will apply it to runs.

### Edit a Variable

To edit a variable:

1. Click the ellipses next to the variable you want to edit and select **Edit**.
1. Make any desired changes and click **Save variable**.

### Delete a Variable

To delete a variable:

1. Click the ellipses next to the variable you want to delete and select **Delete**.
1. Click **Yes, delete variable** to confirm your action.

## Variable Sets

> > **Hands On:** Try the [Manage Variable Sets in Terraform Cloud tutorial](https://learn.hashicorp.com//tutorials/terraform/manage-variable-sets) on HashiCorp Learn.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> **Hands On:** Try the [Manage Variable Sets in Terraform Cloud tutorial](https://learn.hashicorp.com//tutorials/terraform/cloud-multiple-variable-sets) on HashiCorp Learn.
```
